seven things you need to measure on your
website
hey i'm sam dunning co-owner over at
webchoiceuk.com
and host of the top 100 marketing
podcast business
growth show all right so before we jump
into the seven things the first thing we
absolutely need to do
is install google analytics so ask your
developer whoever looks after your site
whether that is yourself
or you've got a team or a freelancer to
install either google analytics or a
similar piece of software
so we can understand exactly what's
going on with our website because
without this
we're pretty much going in blind we can
have no idea of how effective
the marketing works ourselves our team
that our advertising agency is
is spending all this time all this money
doing to our site so get that installed
that is the very first and most
important step
once you've done that what you want to
measure the very first thing you want to
measure is your traffic
volume so you can have a good idea of
how many people coming to the site
in terms of visitors you can break that
down into unique visitors the good thing
about things like google analytics is
you can break this down into
traffic per day per week per month
per year and you can literally go into
the analytics and filter it by whatever
time frequency you want
so you've got a good starting basis to
understand where you're at right now
secondly you want to look at the traffic
sources
so you want to set up your analytics so
you can understand
which chat marketing channel or
advertising channel is bringing in the
traffic to your site
so make sure you've got this set up and
filtered to
various points of whatever marketing
you're doing so whether that's organic
seo whether that's google ads whether
that's facebook ads whether that's
linkedin
instagram your email list so you can
really understand
all the sources and what they're
bringing to the table
in terms of website visitors and traffic
perhaps one of the most important points
number three is your conversions
why is this important well most of us
with our website
we want it to either generate inbound
leads or to generate sales there of
course there are exceptions some
websites are brand building exercises
to build confidence and build trust in
your company and your offer
other sites are there just as a brochure
or to
show professionalism and build
confidence in what you do
or just share contact details now
getting back to the point conversions
so why do we want this we want to
measure how many visitors
are actually turning into customers or
leads
and understand our conversion rate so
what percentage of these are actually
turning into prospects or customers
so what do you want to track well if
you're an e-commerce website the most
important thing is you want to track
how many people actually make the
purchase follow through and buy from you
you probably also want to consider
tracking
add to basket so you can track when
people drop off and don't follow through
with the payment
and various other pieces of the
purchasing funnel from the ad to basket
to successful
order and payment accepted
if you're more focused on lead
generation with your website then you
want to
make sure that you're tracking all these
points such as when it whenever someone
clicks to
phone you on the mobile whenever someone
fills in inquiry form or a demo form
or if someone signs up to your email
list or if they download an ebook like a
lead magnet
so make sure your developer sets all
these points
as a conversion point on your analytics
um or if people sign up to a list or if
they start a chatbot so basically any
way that someone can purchase from you
or get in touch or contact you you want
to be tracking and set that as a goal
on your google analytics
fourthly the bounce rate what's a bounce
rate well a bounce rate is any time
someone goes on to your website homepage
and goes away goes to another site or
clicks off your window
and typically you want the lowest bounce
rate possible
why well you want people to go on your
home page and then
learn more essentially go on to other
pages and eventually
get in touch with you or make that
purchase how can you improve your bounce
rate a few quick
tips are having a fast mobile page fast
page speed in general
so making sure your website loads
ideally under two seconds making sure
above the fold so before someone needs
to scroll on your homepage straight away
you've got a clear value proposition
that's
going to entice the prospect whether
that is a benefit
driven value prop or a pain driven value
pop
prop and having a clear call to action
right on that home page so someone can
easily learn more or get in touch or
purchase from you
and just a few quick things and making
sure your design is geared towards your
target customer it's engaging it looks
great and it's
built for mobile first as well as
desktop
average session time at number five so
we want to know
how long people are spending on a
website if our average session time is
only a few seconds then we know
something's probably not too good
whereas if it's going up to a minute
two minutes three minutes plus we know
our website is doing a better job of
keeping people engaged
so if there are low session times there
are just a few seconds we know that
websites not giving people what they
need
i mean to go back to the drawing board
and look at ways we can improve the user
experience
with our design with our content how
we're educating people and how we're
kind of giving the information they want
to see
number six nearly there we've got mobile
versus desktops and now
60 plus of searches typically start on a
mobile device
so having just what's called a
responsive design where your website
looks okay on mobile tablet and pc is
just not good enough anymore
so you need to make sure your site's got
a mobile first design
and then in fact that's actually a
google ranking factor now so it's super
important
but also google analytics is going to be
able to tell you how what percentage of
your
visitors are viewing on a desktop a
tablet or a mobile so you can make sure
you're giving them the great experience
for whatever consumes the most views on
your site
and finally audience location
so why is this important well most of
our as
our businesses we as a business we have
a target location i.e
perhaps with web choice we're targeting
several countries
we're not just targeting in the uk we
work with brands all over the shop but
you might be
honing in a certain city or several
cities
or several counties but if you look into
analytics and all your traffic's coming
from
other countries or other locations or
counties that you don't target you know
something's wrong
you know you need to refine your
marketing so you can use that intel
to really understand what's going on
right now and what gaps you need to
improve in terms of your perhaps ad
targeting or your seo
targeting or the marketing that you're
carrying out and there you have it those
are the seven things you need to be
measuring on your website today
it's so important that you understand
your website's performance because
if you don't you really can't know how
well your marketing
time or your marketing money your
advertising spend is going
what's going on your website what your
conversion rate is and ultimately how
hard your website is working for your
business
so get those analytics installed right
now or get your developers do it
so you can know where you are now and
then understand what needs improving
with that hope you enjoyed the episode
be sure to hit that subscribe button
and we'll catch you on the next episode
cheers